Hello friends my name is Anil Rajpurohit I am founder Family First Financial Services
MBA Finance and working in corporate sector since 14 years and today I
am presenting in front of you the fire
insurance plan of ICICI Lombard General Insurance is named MSME Suraksha Kawas Plan which
covers fire insurance In the last week of February 2025,
a massive fire broke out in Surat's textile market Shiv Shakti Textile Market where hundreds of shops were burnt to ashes,
the lifelong earnings of more than 800 Rajasthan traders
were burnt to ashes where people had made money by working hard for 10 years 20 years 30 years, had
saved money and became millionaires, according to the news of Dainik Paskar, people
told that after 32 years of hard work they became millionaires and in a day they
came on the road, now they are worried about their household expenses, their children's education,
their marriage, the rest of the life expenses and
how will they pay the money for the goods they bought on credit, a small Such a mistake because here
more than 800 shops have been burnt which have caused damage to people, out of which
more than 80 traders did not have fire insurance,
very few traders had taken fire insurance. We Indians
consider insurance an unnecessary expense. We feel that it is not a necessary expense
because such incidents do not happen again and again, they happen once in life and
destroy the lifelong earning, destroy the lifelong source of income.
Now the traders who were giving jobs to people may have to take up jobs themselves
or they may have to close their shops forever and go back to the village. So
such a big incident could have been avoided by taking fire insurance at a small cost. There is
a simple formula, for example, I am telling you the formula for a saree shop,
suppose you have goods worth Rs. 50 lakh, divide it by 1.1
and then the premium will be Rs. 5500. For a premium of Rs. 5500, you will have to pay Rs. 50 lakh.
You can insure the stock. If the goods are worth 10 lakhs, it can be done for just Rs. 1000.
If the stock is worth one crore, you could insure the entire stock worth one crore for just Rs. 11000.
If you have your own shop, you can insure that as well. In this video,
what else is covered in fire insurance apart from fire, how will you
make a claim, how can you buy the policy, what documents will be required to buy the policy,
I will tell you in detail. Come, watch the entire video. If you
like the video, then my
youtube0 has more than 300 videos, which is Insurance P, which
is India's largest insurance channel. It makes videos on plans of different companies. So,
definitely subscribe to the channel. In future also, you
will get videos related to insurance first, whether it is mediclaim, term policy or other savings and
investment plans. If you like the video, then
definitely subscribe to my Rajpur Triple FS, where there
are more than 300 videos, which is Insurance P, which is India's largest insurance channel.
Videos on plans of different companies. If you are interested in making it then definitely subscribe to the channel.
In future also you will get insurance related videos first, whether it is
a medi claim, term policy or other saving and investment plans.
If you like the video,
then it will be considered my insurance only if there is an act of ignition. If there is a fire anywhere in the property,
then there must be ignition. Ignition means the act of
starting of fire. The start of the fire etc. should happen from there and that accident should
be in the circumstance of the accident. It is not that the fire was set intentionally.
It should be accidental only then that claim will be considered under fire insurance.
Who are the people who can purchase fire insurance policy? Every person who has
an insured interest in it can purchase a fire insurance policy, like if you are an owner,
you are a tenant, you are a lessee, that is, if you have taken it on lease or purchased it, any
person who has an insured interest
in it can take a fire insurance policy, whether you are an individual, a firm, an organization or an institution. Yes,
you can take an insurance policy, fire insurance, either you
are from manufacturing or you come under non-manufacturing. In manufacturing, you know that where
you are making some material etc. Non-manufacturing means like
schools, colleges, hotels, these are from hospitals, these
come under non-manufacturing, so whichever category you come in, whichever risk category you come in, yours will be
The premium will also be calculated accordingly. Now, which are the properties that come under fire insurance?
One is the building structure, the building which is built on the land,
the building which you have built above the land, all those things will be covered. There is no insurance for the land,
but you can take fire insurance for the building that you have built above it.
Second, you can take fire insurance cover for the plant and machinery, which
will cover it. Third, there is stock in it, whether it is raw material or finished goods, today
people do not even give it in different categories, overall they
show it in stocks, so now stocks are covered in it and
the things that are not covered in plant and machinery, stocks and building, whether it is tangible asset or non-tangible asset, they
are also covered in it, like for example, you have installed expensive glasses, you have installed curtains,
there is furniture, you have installed equipment and more, there are computers etc. installed in your office,
so all those things will also be covered under this policy.
How will the insurance cover be decided when you purchase the policy? Whether it is restatement
value or market value, initially your
insurance cover will be based on the current market value and current rate, but at the time of claim, which purchase have you made from it, have you
opted for market value or have you opted for restatement,
so whatever was your actual value, suppose
the value of machinery or building, suppose the value was 50 lakhs, then
you can claim on the full 50 lakhs, but suppose you have purchased it at market value, then
depreciation will be applied as per market value, what was the machinery at that time,
what would be its value today or how old has the building become, you
will get claim according to that, your premium also remains according to that, but
depreciation is not applied in restatement, depreciation is applied on market value, now
what is covered in fire insurance policy, which is called Flexa, Flex means fire
, lightning explosion, explosion and aircraft damage, i.e. fire has occurred due to
lightning, explosion can also happen through that. So it happens in factories etc.
like boiler explosion, in this way aircraft damage is
there, suppose you go to Pokhan etc., there are many aircraft practice, so
if they fall on your house, like in Surat also, there are many houses
over which Hawaij flights fly, if an accident happens on your house or there are flights in other big
cities also, if they fall on your house or your business,
then that too will be covered under this. Apart from this, strikes and malicious
damage are also covered, like riots, strikes have happened and malicious
damage means if someone has intentionally caused you harm and
damaged your business, then that too will be covered under this. Apart from this, there
is a storm, cyclone, hurricane, flood, inundation, like if rain has come and
the house gets flooded for many days in the shop or business or even if you
have taken home insurance, then water is filled in your house for many days, then all these
things will also be covered in it, cyclone, that too It will be covered in this, if there is a storm, that
will also be covered in this, if there is a tornado, that will also be covered in this,
a lot of things are covered in fire insurance, apart from this you will see land slide,
rock slide, if you go to northern India, then daily you get to see the news
or there has been a landslide today, many times you must have seen road jams too, so if
you have a business there or you have taken home insurance and it gets damaged due to landslide,
then that too is being covered in this, apart from this there is impact damage,
other than by the insured, impact damage means that you have been damaged by an external thing,
suppose you have a business, a shop and there is a big tree standing near it which
is years old and it suddenly fell in a storm or normally it
was there for a long time, it fell and your shop got damaged by it, or
another market is being constructed in the market next to yours, work is being done there with the help of big cranes and lifts,
the crane fell or in any other way, that means
if your shop gets damaged by an external thing, then that too will be covered in this, whether Whether it is your shop
, business or home insurance, the fire insurance you have taken
will be covered in it. Apart from this, if your tens etc. burst due to overflow water,
that too will be covered in it. Talking about missile testing, like
a lot of missile testing takes place in Pokhran etc., if that causes any damage to your business, shop or house,
If fire reaches to the forest then that will also be covered in it. Leakage from automatic sprinkler
will also be covered in it. Burs fire will also be covered in it.
Like a few days ago, news came that the forests of California in the US
caught fire and many houses were damaged there. So in this way, if a forest fire
breaks out and your factory or business or house
gets damaged there, then that will also be covered in fire insurance. In this policy,
if you want to add some advance by paying a little extra premium, then you can get it done.
In which there is architect's fee, surveyor's fee, consultant engineer's fee,
you will get the benefit in it. Apart from this, there is debris like debris removal,
like the fire that broke out in Shivshakti market in Surat, there has been a lot of vandalism there
or many such buildings catch fire which completely
destroy the building, then
you can get this rider added as an advance for the cost incurred to remove that debris. Apart from this, there is also a rider
for terrorism. It is related to loss of rent, temporary removal of stocks,
additional expenses of rent, so you can take advance for all these things as well.
You can also take advance for start up expenses. This startup
expense is useful only in shops etc. It is mostly used in factories etc.
For example, suppose your boiler explodes, it
takes four to five days to get a new boiler and start it. There are a lot of
expenses in bringing it to the same temperature. So if you want to take this rider for that, you can take it. If you want to get
an advance, you can get it. Now what information will be required to purchase this policy? What
is the name of the customer? How much insurance cover is to be taken? What is
the risk location? What is your occupancy?
What has been your claim experience in the last 3 years? Do you have the requirement of address or not? Apart from this,
what fire protection measures have you taken? Like the insurance company is doing your insurance,
but if there is a fire, what arrangements have you made for safety at that time?
Do you have a fire extinguisher which is used to extinguish fire, do you have it
or not, if you have ignored it, then that also matters a lot in the claim,
so you will have to give information about all these things, what documents will
be required to purchase this policy, identity proof will be required, PAN card,
you can give the certificate, valuation report, building plan,
ownership of the building, if you are taking the entire
policy of the building, then you will have to give proof of it, if there is any valuable thing, then their valuation
report will have to be given, if there are stocks etc. then you can give their valuation report or
you can also give the estimate that my shop has stocks worth so many lakhs and
always try to keep your time to the maximum, like for example
if I talk about a saree shop, then here
people keep the highest stock during the Diwali season, so in the month in which you have the highest sale,
in the month in which you keep the highest stock, that amount Get your stock insured,
do not get it under-insured.
Many times, the claim is less if it is under-insured. Now what documents will you need while making a claim?
First of all, proof of loss form, copy of your policy, fire department report
, police report, proof of owner, proof of value, financial records
, bills, that will be needed, and if there is an estimate of repair, etc., then all these documents
will be needed. How will you do the claim intimation? In Lord, first of all
write google.com, after that go to claim, go to corporate claim and
on claim intimation, you can fill the information there, let's see how. Now
what do you have to do for making a claim, first of all,
go to its website, after that go to the website, you will see the claim here,
here you can see, go to claim, after going to claim,
click on corporate claim, on corporate claim, here you
will have to intimate the claim, enter the policy number here, enter the policy start and
here Submit it and the rest of the details will come later, you can fill them up here
or on this mobile number and here you
can also upload documents etc. and in this way you can also intimate the claim.
Now let us understand the benefits of this fire insurance policy of ICICI Lombard.
Before this, let us look at the illustration or the quotation,
if we talk about the financial year 2024 of ICICI Lombard, then the gross return premium
has been 247 billion rupees, the company has issued 56.2 million policies,
2.9 million claims have been settled by the company,
ICICI Lombard General Insurance has 312 branches in India, there
are 917 virtual offices, 13000 garages and 10425 hospitals as well, because here motor insurance
is also done, mediclaim is also done by ICICI Lombard, apart from this,
the company also does fire insurance, SM insurance etc., so it is a very big company and here you will see
the name of the plan, you will see here ICICI Lord MSM Suraksha Covers Complete
Fire Insurance Policy, here you have purchased the insurance policy
from 7 March 2025 to 6 March 2026
and here your address is of Surat, the occupancy is your shop which
is a textile shop, here the cost of your building is That is only 50 lakhs.
You should also cover the building in this, which means you are the owner and the stocks etc. in it are also yours. You are
not a tenant. If you are a tenant, then you can only take insurance of the stock.
Here you are the owner of the building in your name and the stock is also in your name. So,
I have taken an estimate of the building that if there is a building worth 50 lakhs, then your
furniture etc. worth 4 lakhs is also included in it and your own stock of 45 lakhs
is also in your shop at that time. Furniture worth 4 lakhs is fixtures, your computer etc. worth 1 lakhs
is there and you have finished stocks worth 45 lakhs. If
you want an insurance cover of total one crore rupees, then here you
will see that you will get a basic cover of one crore rupees for 9735 rupees. In this, you
will also get 000 rupees related to earthquake, this will come inbuilt and
in 10735, this will be your cover of one crore rupees. On top of this, you will have to pay GST of 1932.
In total 12666 rupees crore you will get your
building Your stock and furniture etc.
will all be covered in insurance. I finally surprise you with this plan, ICICI Lombard's MSME Suraksha
Kab. Here you can get a fire insurance policy of up to Rs 50 crore. If you
want to take a policy of a higher amount than this, then other policies are available in the company,
you can purchase that policy as well. So that your years of hard work, your father's and grandfather's
hard work or the business you have built for your children's future
does not go into loss forever due to a sudden fire or a small incident,
or your years of hard work does not end forever, fire
insurance is available for a cheap amount, which you can get. If you have just
started a business on rent or have a shop and you only want to get your stock insured,
then also it is available at a very cheap amount . Divide the amount
of stock you want to insure into 1.1 by 1000, that much will be your premium. Plus you
can add GST on 18 to it. That much premium
will be your fire insurance policy. If you buy this policy from me If you want to purchase then you can contact me
on 99403 412 or you can call me now apart from this if you
need a mediclaim policy for your family or you also need a term insurance policy and
want to purchase the best policy after comparing then also you can consult me ​​thank you so much jai
hind